In this section, we'll
explore neural networks.
The topics in this
section are perceptron,
neural network architecture,
convolutional neural networks,
and recurrent neural networks.
Neural networks have
been a buzzword
recently especially within
the deep learning revolution
that we have seen in
the past few years.
The concept of the neural
network first emerged
in the 1950s and began to
show up in commercial
applications as early as 1962.
The simplest neural
network is a perceptron.
Perceptron is a single
layer neural network
that uses a list
of input features.
For example, X1 to Xn.
X1 can be the cost,
Xn can be the ratings,
and these are all
feature vectors.
In this case, the goal
might be to determine
whether the customer
will or will not
buy something based
on the inputs.
In addition to the
input features,
there is also the bias term,
which is like an intercept
in your linear regression models.
Actually, all those
features are combined
together just as in
the linear regression.
So we have this
linear combination of
features from the input feature,
space, as well as the intercept.
Once we have the
linear combination,
then we'll apply an
activation function.
This activation function
is usually non-linear,
and really depends on the
problem you're trying to solve.
In this particular case,
our response variable
is a binary,
one for buy, or zero for not
to buy a particular product.
The natural way to apply
the activation function is by
using the sigmoid function,
we saw in the last section.
Perceptron is really a
very simple network.
We only have one layer,
which is composed of the sum of
the linear inputs and
the activation function,
which all connect
up to the output.
The idea of perceptrons
was introduced a long time
ago and over time
people have added more
layers to the perceptron.
For example, here we
have the input layer,
we have the original layer,
and we also have
some hidden layers.
Once we have multiple layers,
it becomes a neural network.
Neural networks usually contains
multiple layers and
within each layer,
there are many nodes because
the neural network structure
is rather complicated.
Since there are a lot of
parameters in the model,
neural networks are usually
very difficult to interpret.
Neural networks are
also expensive to train
because the structure
of the neural network
can be complicated,
and so the number of parameters
to be estimated is very large.
In Scikit-learn, there are indeed
some neural network
frameworks for us to use.
But since the deep
learning revolution,
people have been developing
frameworks to design, train,
and estimate, and implement
neural networks in a
brand new fashion.
This has led to the creation of
many layers and
within each layer,
we have many nodes,
so the input data can be much
more larger than before.
Because this training
data in neural network
is very large and
very high-quality,
can be very useful.
In the deep learning
frameworks that are
popular today including MX net,
TensorFlow, Cafe, and PyTorch.
Those are developed
from different sources,
but all of them can be
accessed from Python.
Using Python, we can
design, train, fit,
and implement a
neural network very
easily for any deep
learning framework.
One specific neural network
that's very useful for
image analysis is called
Convolutional Neural Networks.
In convolution neural network,
the input is either an image or
a sequence image that has waited.
For an image, we're using
kernels as filters to
extract local features.
In the example shown here,
we have the input
image and we're using
filters to convolve with
the image to create
the next layer.
Depending on how many
filters we're using,
will have different layers or
different channels in the output
from the convolutional layer,
one in this particular case.
Another concept in your
convolutional neural networks
is the pooling layer.
Once you have a
particular output,
you may want to reduce
the size of bit.
To do this, we can use max
pooling or average pooling.
We will reduce to just a
single scalar by taking
the maximum of the two by two
or taking the average
of the two-by-two.
The pooling layer is virtually
a dimension reduction process.
Based on the application
of convolutional neural networks,
you really have a lot of layers
and the number of
dimensions is pretty high.
We need to reduce the size of
the data for better convergence.
We can add a few
different layers for
the convolution neural networks,
but at the end of the day,
we are to convert the tensor into
a vector and make it become
a fully-connected layer.
The fully connected layer will be
used to link to the output.
The output is usually a
particular category of
the graph or the image
that is contains.
For example, the output from
this image could be a digit zero.
By the training process,
we have a lot of
good labeled data.
By using convolutional
neural networks,
we can try to find out
the best number of
filters and the
variance in the filters
that will give us a near
human-level accuracy
for image recognition.
In this particular case,
for handwritten
digit recognition,
we can achieve a neural near
human level of accuracy.
Another type of neural network is
called Recurrent Neural Network.
For the feed-forward,
neural network and the
convolutional neural network,
the input data is
relatively independent.
The neural network cannot model
the dependent structure among
different input observations.
But often for time, sharing data,
or any other natural language
processing or translation
applications,
the sequence of input data
really means something.
When the data involves
sequential features
or time sharing features,
the recurrent neural network
is the right way to go.
For example, in this high-level
conceptual illustration
of a recurrent neural network,
we have the input layer,
and output layer, and all
of the hidden layers.
Within the input to this
recurrent neural network,
there are a set of characters,
but they do have
meanings as a sequence.
So each individual word,
each individual character
doesn't mean much until
we have a sequential
relationship among them.
During the training process,
information flow is not
just in one direction.
The information flow
is actually reused in
propagating through
different nodes
at different sequences.
In the final result,
the input layer and
output layer are actually
connected with this
recurrent neural network.
I'm [inaudible] and
thank you for watching.